Let's look at Gen-X versus Linux and see what are the differences.
But before we get into finding the differences, we'll find out what Unix is.
Unix was first developed for multiuser and multitask purposes in mid 1970s in Bell Labs by AT&T, G.E.
and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
There was an operating system, but it was not allowing for multi users or multitasking.
So that was one of the purposes for creating that.
Then born Linux in 1991 by a student named Linux towards Linux is mostly free.
And Linux is open source, so what Linux free means is you could install the Linux operating system
in any of your computer hardware.
There are a few Linux distributions that are not free, like RedHat, where you would have to pay for
support, a subscription.
And the open source means that Linux code that was derived from Unix is actually open to the public,
to the community.
So they could go in and make changes to their code and make the operating system the way they want it
to work in their own way.
Unix is mostly used by Sun and the operating system is called Solaris.
By the way, Sun is now bought out by Oracle and also other operating systems that are Unix is used
as HP works by HP, IEX and some other distributions of Unix.
Linux is used mostly by developer communities or companies like RedHat S.O.S, Debian, Fedora, Soucy,
Bunta, and there are so many of them.
Even if you go out and search for Linux distributions, you will find so many of them.
Unix is comparatively support, very few filesystem.
Now what is a filesystem?
That is something that we will cover later, but there are fewer filesystem that supported by Unix operating
system and a lot more vast systems that are supported in Linux.
Flavour's Linux can be installed on a variety of computer hardware ranging from mobile phones, tablet
video games consoles to mainframe and supercomputers is just like you cannot install Mac operating system
on a Dell machine.
You have to install Mac operating system on a Mac hardware just like that.
Unix is only installed on certain hardware, whereas Linux you could install pretty much on every hardware
that is out there running amd your Intel processor.
So these are the few basics about Unix and and Linux and I hope you will find more information if you're
curious about it online.